The v1 client libraries for InfluxDB were typically developed and
maintained by community members. For InfluxDB 3.0 users, this library is
succeeded by the lightweight [v3 client
library](https://github.com/InfluxCommunity/influxdb3-python).

If there are still users of this v1 client library, and they or somebody
else are willing to keep them updated with security fixes at a minimum
please reach out on the [Community
Forums](https://community.influxdata.com/) or [InfluxData
Slack](https://influxdata.com/slack).

# InfluxDB-Python

[![image](https://travis-ci.org/influxdata/influxdb-python.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/influxdata/influxdb-python)

[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/influxdb-python/badge/?version=latest&style)](http://influxdb-python.readthedocs.org/)

[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/influxdata/influxdb-python.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/influxdata/influxdb-python)

[![PyPI Status](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/influxdb.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/influxdb)

InfluxDB-Python is a client for interacting with
[InfluxDB](https://influxdata.com/time-series-platform/influxdb/).

**Note: This library is for use with InfluxDB 1.x. For connecting to
InfluxDB 2.x instances, please use the **
[influxdb-client-python](https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb-client-python)
**client.**

::: {#readme-about}
InfluxDB is an open-source distributed time series database, find more
about [InfluxDB](https://influxdata.com/time-series-platform/influxdb/)
at <https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/latest>
:::

## InfluxDB pre v1.1.0 users {#installation}

This module is tested with InfluxDB versions: v1.2.4, v1.3.9, v1.4.3,
v1.5.4, v1.6.4, and 1.7.4.

Those users still on InfluxDB v0.8.x users may still use the legacy
client by importing `from influxdb.influxdb08 import InfluxDBClient`.

## Installation

Install, upgrade and uninstall influxdb-python with these commands:

    $ pip install influxdb
    $ pip install --upgrade influxdb
    $ pip uninstall influxdb

On Debian/Ubuntu, you can install it with this command:

    $ sudo apt-get install python-influxdb

## Dependencies

The influxdb-api-sdk distribution is supported and tested on Python 3.8 and above.

Additional dependencies are:

-   pandas: for writing from and reading to DataFrames
    (<http://pandas.pydata.org/>)

## Documentation

Documentation is available at
<https://influxdb-python.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>.

You will need [Sphinx](http://sphinx.pocoo.org/) installed to generate
the documentation.

The documentation can be generated by running:

    $ tox -e docs

Generated documentation can be found in the *docs/build/html/*
directory.

## Examples

Here\'s a basic example (for more see the examples directory):

    $ python

    >>> from influxdb import InfluxDBClient

    >>> json_body = [
        {
            "measurement": "cpu_load_short",
            "tags": {
                "host": "server01",
                "region": "us-west"
            },
            "time": "2009-11-10T23:00:00Z",
            "fields": {
                "value": 0.64
            }
        }
    ]

    >>> client = InfluxDBClient('localhost', 8086, 'root', 'root', 'example')

    >>> client.create_database('example')

    >>> client.write_points(json_body)

    >>> result = client.query('select value from cpu_load_short;')

    >>> print("Result: {0}".format(result))

## Testing

Make sure you have tox by running the following:

    $ pip install tox

To test influxdb-python with multiple version of Python, you can use
[Tox](https://tox.readthedocs.org):

    $ tox

## Support

For issues with, questions about, or feedback for
[InfluxDB](https://influxdata.com/time-series-platform/influxdb/),
please look into our community page: <http://influxdb.com/community/>.

We are also lurking on the following:

-   #influxdb on irc.freenode.net
-   #influxdb on gophers.slack.com

## Development

All development is done on
[Github](https://github.com/influxdb/influxdb-python/). Use
[Issues](https://github.com/influxdb/influxdb-python/issues) to report
problems or submit contributions.

Please note that we WILL get to your questions/issues/concerns as
quickly as possible. We maintain many software repositories and
sometimes things may get pushed to the backburner. Please don\'t take
offense, we will do our best to reply as soon as possible!

## Source code

The source code is currently available on Github:
<https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb-python>

## TODO

The TODO/Roadmap can be found in Github bug tracker:
<https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb-python/issues>
